= Vitamined gems

Powered config.gem syntax to make your enviroment DRY

Until the {gem bundler}[http://github.com/wycats/bundler] dominates the entire 
world you can ease the pain of defining gem dependencies by vitamining your 
environment file, avoiding, for example, the burden of adding :lib and :source 
parameters when requiring github gems.

  config.gem.github 'yfactorial-utility_scopes' 

Many thanks to {Bruce Williams}[http://codefluency.com] for the {original idea}[http://codefluency.com/2009/02/07/a-githubby-config-gem-hack.html]
that inspirated this code. Thanks as well to {Marcos Arias}[(http://github.com/yizzreel)] for
his comments.

This gem has been tested with Rails 2.2.x and Rails 2.3.x versions

== Installation

Just install the gem from {Gemcutter}[http://gemcutter.org]

  $ gem install vitamined-gems --source http://gemcutter.org

== Usage

In your environment.rb file, load and initialize the gem before the 
Rails::Initializer.run line. 

  require 'vitamined-gems'
  vitamine_gems!
  
After that you can use the extended syntax. By default github and gemcutter gems 
are supported. Github gems automatically set the :lib and :source parameters, 
while Gemcutter gems set the :source. You can override those values by providing 
your own. The following config:

  config.gem.cutter 'sugarfree-config', :version => '1.0.0'
  config.gem.github 'yfactorial-utility_scopes', :version => '2.0.1'

is equivalent to:

  config.gem.gemcutter 'sugarfree-config', :version => '1.0.0', :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  config.gem.github 'yfactorial-utility_scopes', :version => '2.0.1', :lib => 'utility_scopes', :source => 'http://gems.github.org'

== Further customization

You can add more vitamins or override the exsisting ones by passing a block to 
the vitamine_gems! method like this

  vitamine_gems! do 
    github do |name, options| 
      { :lib => name.split('-', 2).last, :source => 'http://gems.github.org' }
    end
    
    cutter :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'
  end

or you can put a vitamin.rb file in the RAILS_ROOT/config folder 

  github do |name, options| 
    { :lib => name.split('-', 2).last, :source => 'http://gems.github.org' } 
  end
	
  cutter :source => 'http://gemcutter.org'

You can use both methods of customization in parallel. Just remember that in case
of name clashing the block based config overrides the file based config. 

== Contact

Please mail bugs, suggestions and patches to 
contact@davidbarral.com[mailto:contact@davidbarral.com]
